# spatial-action-maps-for-heterogeneous-multi_robot-search-and-rescue

This code release accompanies the following paper:

### Spatial Action Maps for Heterogenenous Multi-Robot Search and Rescue (Senior Thesis)

Daphne Barretto; Collaborators: Nate Simon, Jimmy Wu, Anirudha Majumdar, Szymon Rusinkiewicz

**Abstract:** Autonomous heterogeneous multi-robot systems have the potential to improve search and rescue mission success rates and decrease response time, which can save lives in emergency situations. In this work, we build upon spatial action maps, action representations aligned with state representations for more efficient learning and improved performance \cite{wu2020spatial}, to learn collaborative behaviors for autonomous heterogeneous multi-robot search and rescue via  reinforcement learning. We develop and experiment with new robot types with various capabilities and new maps that communicate and analyze relevant information about robot location and rescue target location in the state representation. We successfully demonstrate learning collaborative behaviors for autonomous heterogeneous multi-robot search and rescue, including coordinated robot navigation for effective searching and reduced collisions, and coordinated responses from robots with rescue action capabilities to navigate to found rescue targets whose locations are communicated to them. We analyze the learned behaviors from each map, and we report quantitative performance improvements when using maps communicating robot location and rescue target location. We demonstrate the benefits of robots limited to search when effective collaborative behaviors are learned, and the benefits of diverse capabilities, particularly between UGVs and UAVs, showing that there are scenarios where heterogeneous multi-robot systems can outperform homogeneous ones. We conduct robustness and generalization tests on the method of using spatial action maps for autonomous heterogeneous multi-robot search and rescue, by considering new environments, numbers of rescue targets, and robot configurations. We demonstrate that the method is robust and that models generalize fairly well to unseen scenarios with some limitations in new environments. Finally, we propose future work that demonstrates scenarios where heterogeneous multi-robot systems consistently perform better than homogeneous multi-robot systems using learned collaborative behaviors. Overall, this work provides insight into learning collaborative behaviors for autonomous heterogeneous multi-robot search and rescue using spatial action maps, with potential implications for real-world search and rescue tasks.
